All right, so in this video we're gonna
review some of the unary operators in code.
So firstly, we'll explore the prefix decrement,
prefix increment and postfix decrement as well as
the postfix increment operators.
Now, it's very important to remember
that the postfix decrement and postfix increment
operators do not change the value of its unary operand,
until the expression it is operating
in is considered completed or,
and this or is kind of important,
or the operand is used again in the same statement.
This will be tested on the Certification Exam,
much likely in very complex ways.
So remember that the unary variable being operated
on does get operated on, the value at the end is
either incremented or decremented, but any assignments,
or expressions this statement is part of
will be using the unchanged value
until the expression statement is evaluated successfully.
If the statement is interrupted somehow,
then the postfix increment or decrement
may not actually be applied.
It needs to be noted that the increment
and decrement operators are changing the value
contained in the reference itself.
If you make the statement a++, for example,
you are incrementing the value in the variable a.
These operators can be stand alone statements.
This is different, for example, from the unary minus a,
which has no impact on the value of the operand itself,
and cannot be a statement on its own.
It's output must be assigned or used in an expression.
All right, so enough talk about that,
let's create a new project.
You can see that I've actually done that here.
I've called that operators.
We're going to create a new class called unary operator
and explore some of this prefix and postfix increment
and decrement operators.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and do that and create that class.
You can see some examples that I've got there.
And in the comments, I've indicated
what should be happening.
But note the comment I want to talk about on line 12,
if you do no assignment and the operator
is not participating in a more complex
expression the following statements are the same.
The value in variable a gets incremented by one.
So let's actually run this code.
Right, so that's the output.
So what's the difference here?
Well, let's modify the code and move the increment
and decrement operators into the system.out.println
code itself, rather than having them separate.
And I've copied some code and pasted after initial code.
Let's do that.
So let's run this.
So the prefix increment resulted in the same behaviour,
however, the postfix increment did not actually get
incremented until after the statement,
in this case, the system.out.println was executed,
which of course is the definition
of the postfix increment, all right.
So let's try some less obvious examples here.
Gonna paste in the following code, okay.
We'll run this.
So note here that a2 was assigned the value of a
before it was incremented.
You'll also note that the if statement block
was never executed.
The prefix increment operator incremented a to two
prior to the expression being evaluated.
All right, so finally now let's look at some loops
where these operators used, quite often,
and the Certification Exam will test you,
more than likely, in unexpected ways.
I've got some more code to paste in.
All right, so we'll just have a look at the code
that I've just pasted in there and begins on line 44.
Not a lot to say about that,
so I'll actually run the code.
Here you can see that the decision of which increment
and decrement operator you use can
have significantly different results.
And we can see that in terms of the loopiterations
and the value of b.
All right, before we end the video,
we're gonna review some other unary operators.
So the unary minus returns a negative value
if the value in the operand is positive,
and a positive value if the value
in the operand is negative.
The unary plus returns a value with the same sign
as the operand, and has no effect on the value.
Both operators, will however,
promote the return values to an int.
Right, so let's create another class here.
We'll call this one unary operator more.
There's the code for it, as you can see.
So we're demonstrating both the unary minus
and the unary plus operands, which we've just talked about.
So the output's demonstrating that unlike the increment
and decrement operators the value of the operand reference
itself stays unchanged.
The expression's value must be returned to a variable
or used in an expression.
These unary operators cannot be stand alone statements,
for that reason.
All right, so just before we finish this video,
let's now look at the complement operators.
So the bitwise complement operator flips the bit
for the entire value of the variable.
So the binary literal value of the integer zero,
gets every bit flipped to one,
making it's integer value minus one.
The logical complement operator only works on a Boolean,
and changes false to not false, true in other words.
So let's add some code to this same class file.
So we can take a look at an example
of h complement operator.
Okay, so there's the code.
So if we run this,
you can see we get the confirmation
that it's actually working as specified.
Now, it's interesting to note
that the Integer.toBinaryString,
which we're calling on lines 34 and lines 36,
only prints out 32-bits if the value
of the int variable is negative.
All right, so let's end the video here.
In the next video, we'll start talking
about all the other operators we haven't yet discussed.
See you in the next video.